# iki-04
IKI  Deforestation is a key problem in our society, but it’s not always perceived as important as it really is. But what’s the best way to communicate such a big, boring and unconceivable number? So instead of thinking of deforestation in its purest form, we thought about one of its consequences: the lack of oxygen. Oxygen - in other words, breathing - is experienced everyday, and too much often it’s taken for granted. This was a smart and more intimate way to talk about deforestation.  The project challenge was to figure out how to translate the lack of oxygen on a device: we were inspired by some meditation apps that had a visual element that could be used by the user to regulate his breathing to the one suggested by the app. Then, we conceived the device monitor as a sort of container for the “available” oxygen, that the user consumes by tapping on the screen when breathing in; then, he releases his finger and the oxygen level is refilled thanks to the trees. The user can then experience the lack of oxygen by scrolling to the future: the level of oxygen will rise slower, forcing him to modulate his breathing. We also added a more informative section where the user visually sees the change in the trees total number.  One of the problems while coding the app was figuring out how to time the movement of the oxygen “tank”, in order to make it more flowing as possible. Secondly, we had some difficulties with the pixel-trees part, because in the beginning we worked with random functions and then we had to switch to working with percentage and proportion: while the theoric reasoning was clear, it was hard to translate it into code with the remapping function. In general, the biggest challenge was figuring out how to put together the different pieces of code and work out how to transform our ideas into functions and variables.
